MIT Media Lab - Research Agenda

I have two areas of interest that I would like to explore as a Visiting Scholar in the Human Dynamics Laboratory at the MIT Media Lab.  

First, I am interested researching the legal and public policy implications of, and responses to, the data revolution.  In particular, I am interested in the legal, regulatory, and market mechanisms that are necessary for the existence and operations of “efficient” data markets.  I use the term “efficient” in the broadest possible sense, thereby including values such as individual autonomy and control over personal data.  If there is to be a “New Deal on Data,” it will not come about solely through technical and market innovations.  Legal and policy innovations will also be required to create the right conditions for a truly efficient market for personal data.  

While concepts such as individual ownership and control over personal data are important and foundational, I do not believe they are sufficient to ensure properly functioning data markets because they are based on neo-classical economic assumptions such as rational actor theory and equal access to information by all market participants.  I am particularly interested in applying the concept of “information asymmetry” to the market for data.  The 2001 Nobel Prize in Economics was awarded to George Akerlof, Michael Spence, and Joseph Stiglitz for their work on markets in which participants do not have access to the same information.  I believe this work can offer important insights into the current flaws in the market for personal data and possible legal and policy responses to address these shortcomings.  

Second, I am interested in the application of data analysis and data visualization techniques to the fields of law and public policy.  While social scientists and political scientists have long used data and quantitative methods to study public policy and the impact of various laws, I believe these fields could benefit from new and interesting applications of the reality mining techniques pioneered at the HDL.  Examples include the analysis of social networks and interpersonal relationships as either vectors for exposure to new ideas and/or as ways to reinforce established beliefs, or developing a summary statistic (analogous to a Gini coefficient) to measure and study things such as gerrymandering, partisanship, and political polarization.
