##Project Proposal 1: Harvard Living Lab

Apply the same methods as the living lab that took place at MIT. The methodology would include a combination of outfitting students with smartphones (or sociometric badges) to track their locations, and questionnaires to understand their performance at HLS and their attitudes toward legal practice.

If you recall, MIT students' social networks were mapped using smartphones that detected geolocation. This data was compared against responses to questionnaires that asked about the students' political preferences. The result: where and with whom the students spent time was a good predictor of their subjective political preferences.

While the questionnaires in the MIT study covered political preference, ours would cover even more easy-to-define outputs: 1. Career plans 2. Grades 3. Law review acceptance and 4. Clerkship acceptances are examples. We could supplement these with more subjective questions, too, to understand how students' understanding of the function of lawyers changes over time.

##Project Proposal 2: Classroom Engagement Feedback 

We could use a "Meeting Mediator System" (see Social Physics, pg 109) to determine what relative class engagement is like among men v. women, public school v. private school alumni, etc. HBS had similar problems to HLS when it came to the relative engagement of women in class. To solve this problem, they employed a transcriptionist to sit in each class and type out the contents of the day's discussion, then hand-code the results to determine the relative frequency of female participation. We could use sociometric badges to gather the same data in real time. Not only that, we could use the Meeting Mediator System (basically, an iPad that displays where the balance of communication is in a discussion) to alert professors as to when a particular subset of students is participating more heavily in class. We can compare outputs across classes that include a Meeting Mediator System with those that don't to demonstrate that engagement is more distributed when professors and/or students have real-time feedback that, e.g., the class discussion is being dominated by men.

##Project Proposal 3: Law Review Text Analysis 

Each spring, HLS 1Ls submit a draft of writing to be considered for membership on the Harvard Law Review. Though the submissions are completely anonymized (i.e., the current Law Review students who judge the competition do not know the entrant's gender or any other identifying information), selected participants in harvard law review are dramatically skewed. In 2013, the editorial board was overwhelmingly male and overwhelmingly a product of private rather public undergraduate institutions. Some have speculated that the selection process perpetuates the skewed make-up of the board: students like the writing style of students who are similar to them, so perhaps there is a "male" or "private school" way of writing the HLR submission. As students from the current board select the anonymous writing of students who share similarities to their writing style, the effect compounds over time. 

I'd like to do a text analysis on the anonymous HLR submissions, to determine if there are writing patterns that emerge over time. Last year, the HLR instituted a new policy of affirmative action for female applicants, because they have struggled to address and understand the skewed make-up for so long. So, I hope they will be interested in sharing batches of anonymized submissions. 
